So essentially, what I'm encouraging
you to do is to test early,
even with a single mockup
if that's all you've got,
it has considerable
benefits from doing so.
And focus your testing primarily
on aesthetics at this stage, but
if you want you might as well do a bit
of usability while you're at it,
cuz you can send it all out in one go.
And if possible do some comprehension and
usability testing as well.
I cannot recommend doing this enough.
Out of everything that I've covered today,
for most people,
this is the one area of usability
testing they're not doing and
that is easy to do and
will make your life the easiest, right?
Other areas people are more familiar
with doing usability testing in, but
this is the one which I think
makes the biggest difference.
So before we move on to
testing your prototype,
any questions around any of that,
or thoughts or opinions?
Yeah, go for it.
>> I think I understand a break,
but lorem ipsum
>> Yes, yes.
>> Did you use that make up for
fake content?
>> Yes.
No, I mean, I don't do that.
I think I described lorem ipsum
as the devil spawn or something,
I think it was something like that.
For me usability is so intrinsically
tied to content that you cannot,
if you're just testing
aesthetics fair enough,
knock yourself out use lorem ipsum.
But the minute you want to pay any
kind of attention to usability,
do people understand it?
Do they comprehend it?
Can they interact with it?
You're gonna need real text in there.
It doesn't need to be perfect real text,
it can be draft.
Now, the big problem always
comes to that is extracting that
from clients because clients
are terrible at delivering content.
I've given up, right?
I've learned that actually clients
are terrible at delivering,
in fact, people, right?
We're all like,
I don't know why I'm singling out clients
like there are some freakish subspecies.
As human beings, we are no good at
creating something from scratch.
We are very good at taking something that
already exists and improving it, right?
So let's take the burden off
of our clients from creating
something from scratch and
we can do it ourselves.
Now that sounds everybody is now go, whoa,
especially this audience, developers.
I mean, unless it's written in binary or
JSON, then they're not interested.
But honestly,
this doesn't need to be complicated.
All I do, in most cases, if we have
done that information architecture work,
we already have a list
of all the questions and
all the tasks that people wanna complete,
right?
So it's really simple from there.
We know on any given page what
question that page has to answer,
maybe multiple questions.
So all I do is I write the questions out,
bang, bang, bang, bang, bang as a list.
If I have got a rough idea of
the answers to those questions,
I bullet them out, right?
Just literally bullet points.
If I don't, I ask the client, give us a
couple of bullet points for each of these.
That's all and
normally that's not too bad.
Or even ask them over the phone and
just fill it in, right?
And then I take all of that.
Yes, what I do with it, I dump it into
ChatGPT and I provide it with a load of,
I've got a whole different
workshop on content creation and
content management, but essentially
I drop it into ChatGPTand I say,
draft me some website content
that answers these questions.
And will fit in these kind of word length.
And if I used bullets and headings and
stuff like that, and it churns stuff out,
is that any good.
Probably not, I don't really care.
It's better than lorem ipsum and
it'll get the client to respond to it.
So that tends to be how
I do it these days.
It takes me a quarter an hour extra, but
for the sake of it,
it's probably worth it most times.
It just makes it really hard to do
any kind of testing around usability.
But soon as you get something,
because the devils in the detail in it
because you could say for example,
if you're testing a prototype.
And you're saying to somebody, find out
whether you're you've got dental coverage
for example, going back to what
we were talking about earlier.
It's like unless you've got content
that answers that question on the page,
how are they gonna know whether
they're on the right page or not.
So it's so limiting in the amount
of usability testing you can
do without content in there,
that it's impossible.
Sometimes they lift content
from the existing site, but
oftentimes it's so
bad that I don't want to do that.
And that actually even taking that and
running it through ChatGPT helps.
I'll tell you another really good app
these days for that actually, if you've
got existing content, if the client has
given you content that's terrible or
an existing website content,
there's an app called Hemingway.
And you can copy and paste the content
into Hemingway and for a start it'll tell
you how terrible it is by telling you that
it's got really high reading level and
all the sentences are too long and
all the things that are wrong with it.
But then it's got a magic AI
button that you can click.
I think you have to pay for
the AI, but it's not a lot.
It'll even go through and add sections and
put bullets in and bold bits and
it really does clean it very nice and
it's a lot better than things
like Grammarly because it is created
specifically for good web copy.
It doesn't say that but the way
that it works is very web friendly,
short sentences, not too many
conjunctions, all of that kind of stuff,
but that's a whole other workshop.
Yeah, go for it.
>> So, now you've got
the information architecture.
>> Yes.
>> You're ready to present to the client.
>> How do you present that?
How would you go through your presentation
about after I've done all this research,
all this information and
everything that I've done?
>> Yeah.
>> That are, here those.
>> Right, two things.
One is I never sign off,
which is very controversial.
And the second thing is I kind
of present but not in a big,
not in the old fashioned tada way, right?
So this whole thing about signing
off a design, doing a big pitch and
presentation, comes directly out
of kind of Mad Men era, right?
And it's fundamentally flawed for
a number of reasons.
One is that it's based on this lone genius
having an incredible creative concept and
then pitching it and wowing everybody.
And I don't work like that at all.
I have a process of testing and data
gathering that delivers a result, right?
So I am basically drip
feeding the customer,
the stakeholder along the journey, right?
So as soon as I've done the information
architecture, I'll drop them in email and
say these are the results of
the information architecture.
This was the findings on the basis,
this is what I'm proposing.
Unless I hear back from you,
I will just carry on.
Then when I do the aesthetic,
here are the mood boards.
These are what the tests that I ran,
these are the results that I found.
If you've got anything else
that you would require
me to test that you don't feel I missed,
just let me know, or I'll carry on.
This is the mockup that I've done and
I've done a five second test and
these were the things
that I've done on it.
If there's anything that you
would like me to clarify or
to do additional testing on,
let me know it.
And I just keep going like that,
step by step.
And so as a result of that,
there's never a moment where
we have this big ta-da moment.
I'm taking them on the journey.
Sometimes I'll send them a video,
I'm making it sound like it's all email.
Sometimes I'll drop them a video,
sometimes we'll jump on Zoom.
But it's that process of just
going through thing by thing and
just moving forward continually and
not asking them to assign it off.
Because the minute you say sign off
the design, it becomes this big
moment in time where they've got
to get it right and they pick and
pick and pick at it and you get
caught in this iteration hell, right?
And it just doesn't work.
And the truth is,
the idea of signing off made a lot
of sense in the print era, right?
Because once you ran it to print,
that's it, you're done.
But if there's typos, if they decide they
want a slightly different color green,
if they decide that they
want a different font.
All of that can be changed quite
easily in the build stage.
But in most cases, by that stage,
they've lost interest.
When they first see the design,
because there's this initial shock,
whenever you see anything design,
there's this moment of shock of going,
that isn't what I had in my head, right?
So then they'll start saying, can we go
with a Serif font or a Sans Serif font or
whatever, whatever their thing is, right?
If you say, well, look, live with it for
a bit, we can always in the build.
If you still feel like it will change it,
you'll never hear from them again and
you'll never have to do anything.
But if you say you've got
sign off this design,
when all that's fresh in their heads and
get into a battle this
is another workshop that I also run
on dealing and working with clients.
Yeah so it's a different way of working
but it really does work at least for me.